    At the beginning of this chapter, Trond declares his intrinsic connection with nature. Discuss the purpose of this connection. How do you understand Trond better because of this fact?

    The purpose of the connection is for Trond to be one with nature. It has his desire from before when he was with Jon to be a "Forest Boy" fulfilled. Trond always had had a desire to be like Jon, and Jon lived and breathed the forest. Trond feels this way in this moment, "I was forest" (74) he says which feels like he has that connection to what he wanted to feel like Jon. We understand Trond better by knowing how strong his desire is to be in this position by the fact they he almost cannot stop working, "The others had to restrain me, they took me by the shoulders and sat me down on a tree stump and said I had to sit there and rest for a while". This helps us understand how much dedication Trond has to being part of nature like Jon.

    Discuss the implications of the “competition” between Jon’s and Trond’s fathers. Consider the metaphorical implications of the accident.

    The implication drawn from the situation between the two fathers is that it was a challenge for authority, presumably by Jon's father. Since Trond's father has taken the new role of being in charge and running the entire logging operation Jon's father thought it as possibly Trond's father putting his foot into the community of workers. Trond had even said to himself that is was remarkable how his dad was taking charge. The metaphorical implications of the accident are that Trond's father had won the competition and asserted authority. The accident also made they come back to reality and see what was actually happening and how stupid it was. 

    Petterson represents thought and interior consciousness throughout the book. In what ways and for what reasons does he employ this technique in this chapter?

    The main event that explores consciousness is the walk that Trond takes after his meeting with Lars. This walk explores conscious a lot because of Trond's thoughts during the walk. He walks by Lars' house and is very observant of what is going on and the state and feel of everything he sees. He is very conscious. He arrives to the lake and falls asleep and when he awake that he is here in the world and it is really cold and he dog is with him. What Lars said to him in their dinner together really brought him back to previous times and transported his conscious to a time before related to the time that the flashbacks in the book bring us too. The idea of conscious also appears where Trond is questioning what Lars knows and is wondering about what he has came to dinner for, "Or does he remember the newspapers from three years ago with me in a big photograph". Here Trond is transported again to another time flashes back on the event and we learn about part of what happened to Trond's wife. He also considers the fact of him knowing what he assumes he knows, about their past together.

    On April 8, 1940, the Nazis arrive in Oslo. How do the Norwegians respond? What reasons would there be for this response? In what ways does it differ from the response of other occupied countries?

    The Norwegians response is very quiet and silent. No one really does anything and just watches it happen. There is no battle and no real response from Norway. Trond and his father just stand there and watch shaking their heads at each other. The Norwegians know it is bad but no-one does anything. The reason for the response would be the peacefulness of Norwegian culture. The people including Trond and his father thought they could not do anything. So did everyone else. Other occupied countries put up more of a fight against the Germans. 
