Chapters 9-12 Reading Log/Journal Responses 
Note: In each response, provide evidence to support your answer in the form of a quote or paraphrase from that chapter. 

Chapter 9: Do you believe Trond’s father intentionally lied to him about coming along later (page 117)? Support your response with evidence (based on inference). 

    Yes I think that Trond's father did lie about coming along later. Firstly I think this because his father has said this before and not followed through. Specifically the day when Jon's father's arm got broken when dealing with the logs. Trond and his father showered off and ran around naked then his father said he would join him soon in bed. He never ended up joining him in sleeping and was not there later that day. It was later found out by Trond that he was with Jon's mother. Something that would not benefit Trond at all. This means that Trond would doubt him, which he did and said "I have heard those words before" (117). Trond's father could also be seen as untrustworthy based on the amount he talks to Trond about worldly things before he leaves. For example he says, "You just have to take it in and remember to think afterwards and not forget and never grow bitter" (116). This shows that he is preparing not to see his son for a very long time.

Chapter 10: What choice does Jon’s father make and why would he “come to regret” that choice?

    Jon's father makes the choice to not do anything about all the men that are sent through the household. Most importantly the one very loud man that stays with them. "and now he did not want to look any other way at all but instead was staring after her" (136). I think that Jon's father his staring at her with anger about this guy who is putting her and his entire family. Another mistake that he makes (which is the one I think he regrets), is to not walk in the footprints like his wife told him to do, "You must walk in his footprints. You have no choice" (137). It seems as if the father did not do this which leads to very bad things for everyone in the neighborhood. 

What is the significance of the Norwegian-Swedish border in the novel? Does it function on a metaphorical as well as a literal level?

    The Norwegian-Swedish border is very significant as the place that Trond's father goes to complete his informant missions. In a metaphorical level the other side of the border is a place for him separate to home. It is a place for work. At home the father works on the house and does projects for enjoyment instead of hard work. The border represents a place many people in the town call home and a place that people see as this mythical place where Trond's father gets things done. This place is so essential to the safety of everyone in the town and has great importance for them.

Chapter 11: (include related information from Chapter 10) Why do you think Trond’s father doesn't tell him the story of the Resistance? Why does he leave it to Franz? 

    I think that that Trond's father does not tell his son details about the events out of love for his son. I think that Trond would not like the amount of danger his father was putting himself in taking into consideration the connection Trond and his father have together. Franz says in chapter 10 that "And the strange thing is that it was not as I have seen it so many times later in life, that someone who is so well like by so many people can often be a touch shapeless and unassuming and will go out of their way not to provoke. This shows how his father had a non-provoking attitude which would explain why he did not tell his son about these things. It also puts all the people he knows and loves at risk. He also would not want someone distracting him from his work and creating any difficulties.

Why do you think Trond’s father is so secretive about his activities during the war?
    Trond's father makes the choice to become an informant for the resistance. He would "come to regret that choice because he put much of the neighborhood at risk. "and when he was not at the cabin someone from the village made the final leg across the border; Franz once or twice, and Jon's mother when she could get away, but there was considerable danger involved". This shows how many people went through risky situations because of him during the German occupation. It also caused further problems by putting himself at great risk. There was a German guard that stayed at watch in their neighborhood and he could be caught at any point. "And he knew that if he did something unexpected, like suddenly turning and starting to run, the German boy would quite certainly snatch his machine gun quick as lightning from his shoulder and shout: `Halt!`, and if he did not stop then he would have a salvo of bullets coming at him and perhaps be killed" (132). The shows how close immediate death is for him and why he would regret it.


Chapter 12: Trond repeatedly refers to himself as a lucky man, but the tone of the novel is melancholic. Do you think he is deceiving himself or is he truly lucky?

    I think while Trond has been through many difficult things and the people around him in his childhood have too, he values life very much. Every connection he makes he values. This is evident later in his life with his relationship with Lars. Trond, like his father really goes out of his way to prevent difficulty for other people which would explain why he considers himself lucky, "and at the same time I'm a bit surprised that he should take charge in my house and in what way have an opinion about how I do things, I would have never done that myself, but he did ask first, so I guess it is alright. This shows how he does not want Lars doing work he could be doing himself. The same happened with the tree that fell in his yard.
